WARNING CAME JUST HOURS AFTER
REPORTS THAT SUSPECTED AL QAEDA
MEMBERS WERE KILLED BY AN
AMERICAN DRONE STRIKE IN YEMEN.
WE GET THE LATEST ON THE TERROR
THREAT THERE.
>> Ifill: THEN, IT'S THE DAWN OF
A NEW ERA AT ONE OF AMERICA'S
LANDMARK NEWSPAPERS.
WE HAVE AN EXCLUSIVE BROADCAST
INTERVIEW WITH THE CHAIRMAN AND
C.E.O. OF THE "WASHINGTON
POST'S" PARENT COMPANY, DONALD
GRAHAM.
>> Warner: "I AM THE SHOOTER,"
DECLARED ARMY MAJOR NIDAL HASAN
AT THE START OF HIS TRIAL IN AN
ATTACK THAT KILLED 13 AT FORT
HOOD, TEXAS.
WE LOOK AT TODAY'S OPENING
ARGUMENTS AND EARLY TESTIMONY.
>> Ifill: THE PENTAGON EASED
FINANCIAL PAIN FOR ITS EMPLOYEES
BY CUTTING UNPAID FURLOUGH FROM
11 DAYS TO SIX.
RAY SUAREZ DISCUSSES THE BUDGET
CUTS AND TERROR THREATWITHS
DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
ASHTON CARTER.
>> OUR EFFORT TO DEAL WITH THE
CURRENT BUDGET SITUATION, WE
BELIEVE, HAS TO BE DRIVEN BY
STRATEGY.
THAT IS, A VIEW OF THE FUTURE.
TERRORISM IS ONE OF THOSE THINGS
THAT'S GOING TO BE AROUND.
>> Warner: AND MORE THAN 1.5
MILLION PEOPLE HAVE FLED THE
BLOODY SYRIAN CIVIL WAR.
WE HAVE AN ON-THE-GROUND REPORT
FROM THE WORLD'S SECOND LARGEST
REFUGEE CAMP IN JORDAN.
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Warner: THE TERROR THREAT
THAT'S ALREADY SHUT DOWN U.S.
EMBASSIES ACROSS THE MUSLIM
WORLD ZEROED IN ON YEMEN TODAY
AFTER THE STATE DEPARTMENT URGED
AMERICAN CITIZENS AND MANY U.S.
GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL TO DEPART.
AMERICANS AND OTHER FOREIGNERS
STREAMED TO THE AIRPORT IN SANAA
AFTER THSTATE E DEPARTMENT
WARNED OF AN "EXTREMELY HIGH"
THREAT LEVEL.
AND AT THE FORTIFIED U.S.
EMBASSY, NONESSENTIAL STAFFERS
WERE ORDERED TO LEAVE, FLOWN OUT
BY THE U.S. MILITARY.
BUT IN WASHINGTON, STATE
DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN JEN PSAKI
WOULD NOT CALL IT AN EVACUATION.
>> LET ME JUST MAKE CLEAR WHAT
THIS IS AND WHAT THIS IS NOT.
THIS IS A REDUCTION IN STAFFING.
THIS IS... WE STILL HAVE A
PRESENCE IN YEMEN.
WE ARE CONTINUE TO EVALUATE.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY UPDATES ON
WHEN STAFF MAY RETURN.
>> Warner: IT WAS REPORTED THAT
TODAY'S ORDER TO LEAVE, COMING
AFTER WIDESPREAD EMBASSY
CLOSINGS AND A WORLDWIDE TRAVEL
ALERT, WAS TRIGGERED BY A
COMMUNICATION BETWEEN AL QAEDA'S
LEADER, AYMAN AL ZAWAHIRI, AND
NASSER AL WUHAYSHI, THE CHIEF OF
ITS AFFILIATE, AL QAEDA IN THE
ARABIAN PENINSULA, OR A.Q.A.P.
THE YEMENI GOVERNMENT OBJECTED
TO TODAY'S U.S. ORDER BUT DID
CITE SPECIFIC INTERCEPTED
THREATS.
>> ( translated ): THERE WERE
ATTEMPTS TO CONTROL KEY CITIES
IN YEMEN.
THE PLOT WAS PLANNED BY AL QAEDA
FOR THE 27th DAY OF RAMADAN.
THE AIM WAS TO CONTROL TWO
IMPORTANT PORTS BY DROPPING IN
AL QAEDA MEMBERS WEARING
MILITARY UNIFORMS WHO WOULD
PRETEND TO ASK FOR RAMADAN TIPS
OWED TO THEM, AND THEN THEY
WOULD ATTACK.
>> Warner: A.Q.A.P. HAS TRIED TO
MOUNT OPERATIONS OUTSIDE YEMEN,
TOO-- THE FAILED 2009 CHRISTMAS
DAY BOMBER AND THE 2010 PLOT TO
SHIP EXPLOSIVES IN PRINTER
CARTRIDGES TO THE U.S.
THE U.S. HAS LAUNCHED MULTIPLE
DRONE STRIKES IN YEMEN,
INCLUDING ONE TODAY THAT KILLED
FOUR SUSPECTED AL QAEDA
OPERATIVES.
FOR MORE ON THE THREAT POSED BY
YEMEN AND EMANATING FROM YEMEN
WE TURN TO GREGORY JOHNSON.
HE WAS A FULBRIGHT SCHOLAR BASED
IN YEMEN NOW AT PRINCETON
UNIVERSITY.
WELCOME.
>> THE U.S. HAS BEEN POUNDING
AWAY AT A.Q.A.P. INTENSE I HAVE
BEENLY EVER SINCE THE CHRISTMAS
DAY BOMB ATTEMPT IN 2009.
IS AL QAEDA STRONGER OR WEAKER
THAN IT WAS THEN IN THE ARABIAN
PENINSULA.
>> RIGHT.
I THINK THIS IS ONE OF THE
REALLY FRUSTRATING THINGS FOR
THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE AS YOU
POINT OUT THEY HAD BEEN CARRYING
OUT SEVERAL AIR AND DRONE
STRIKES.
THEY KILLED PEOPLE LIKE THE
AMERICAN-BORN CLERIC THERE IN
YEMEN.
THEY KILLED A.Q.A.P.'S NUMBER
TWO.
YET WHAT WE'VE SEEN OVER THE
PAST THREE-AND-A-HALF YEARS IS
THAT A.Q.A.P. HAS GONE FROM A
GROUP OF ABOUT 200 TO 300 PEOPLE
ON CHRISTMAS DAY 2009 TO,
ACCORDING TO THE U.S. STATE
DEPARTMENT, MORE THAN A FEW
THOUSAND FIGHTERS TODAY.
>> Warner: AND WHAT EXPLAINS
THAT?
>> I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT EXPLAINS IT IS THAT THE
U.S., NOT ALL OF THESE STRIKES
THAT THE U.S. CARRIES OUT ARE
SUCCESSFUL.
SO THERE ARE SOME MISTAKEN
STRIKES.
THERE ARE STRIKES THAT KILL
CIVILIANS.
WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
THERE ARE STRIKES THAT KILL
AND WHEN YOU KILL PEOPLE IN
WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
YEMEN, THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO HAVE
AND WHEN YOU KILL PEOPLE IN
FAMILIES.
YEMEN, THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO HAVE
THEY HAVE CLANS.
FAMILIES.
THEY HAVE TRIBES.
THEY HAVE CLANS.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS THAT THE
THEY HAVE TRIBES.
UNITED STATES MIGHT TARGET A
WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS THAT THE
PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL BECAUSE
UNITED STATES MIGHT TARGET A
THEY SEE HIM AS A MEMBER OF AL
PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL BECAUSE
QAEDA.
THEY SEE HIM AS A MEMBER OF AL
BUT WHAT'S HAPPENING ON THE
QAEDA.
GROUND IS THAT HE'S BEING
BUT WHAT'S HAPPENING ON THE
DEFENDED AS A TRIBESMAN.
GROUND IS THAT HE'S BEING
SO YOU HAVE PEOPLE FLOWING INTO
DEFENDED AS A TRIBESMAN.
AL QAEDA, NOT NECESSARILY
SO YOU HAVE PEOPLE FLOWING INTO
BECAUSE THEY SHARE THE SAME
AL QAEDA, NOT NECESSARILY
IDEOLOGY OF AL QAEDA BUT JUST SO
BECAUSE THEY SHARE THE SAME
THAT THEY CAN GET REVENGE FOR
IDEOLOGY OF AL QAEDA BUT JUST SO
THEIR TRIBESMEN WHO HAS BEEN
THAT THEY CAN GET REVENGE FOR
KILLED IN A DRONE OR AIR STRIKE.
THEIR TRIBESMEN WHO HAS BEEN
>> Warner: HOW WIDELY CAN
KILLED IN A DRONE OR AIR STRIKE.
A.Q.A.P. OPERATE OUTSIDE OF
>> Warner: HOW WIDELY CAN
YEMEN?
A.Q.A.P. OPERATE OUTSIDE OF
>> WELL, THIS IS A GROUP THAT,
YEMEN?
AS YOU REPORT, SHOWED, I MEAN,
>> WELL, THIS IS A GROUP THAT,
THEY WERE ABLE TO CHRISTMAS DAY
AS YOU REPORT, SHOWED, I MEAN,
2009 TO SEND A WOULD-BE SUICIDE
THEY WERE ABLE TO CHRISTMAS DAY
BOMBER FROM YEMEN ON TO A PLANE
2009 TO SEND A WOULD-BE SUICIDE
BOUND FOR THE U.S.
BOMBER FROM YEMEN ON TO A PLANE
IN 2010 THEY SENT A PAIR OF
BOUND FOR THE U.S.
CARTRIDGE BOMBS WHICH WERE
IN 2010 THEY SENT A PAIR OF
THANKFULLY UNCOVERED BEFORE THEY
CARTRIDGE BOMBS WHICH WERE
COULD BE EXPLODED.
THANKFULLY UNCOVERED BEFORE THEY
LAST SPRING IN 2012 THE
COULD BE EXPLODED.
ORGANIZATION DEVELOPED ALMOST AN
LAST SPRING IN 2012 THE
UNDERWEAR BOMB 2.0, ONE THAT WAS
ORGANIZATION DEVELOPED ALMOST AN
GENERATIONS BEYOND WHAT THEY HAD
UNDERWEAR BOMB 2.0, ONE THAT WAS
CREATED IN 2009.
GENERATIONS BEYOND WHAT THEY HAD
THANKFULLY THAT ONE THEY GAVE TO
CREATED IN 2009.
AN UNDERCOVER AGENT.
THANKFULLY THAT ONE THEY GAVE TO
THIS IS A GROUP THAT HAS SHOWN
AN UNDERCOVER AGENT.
ITSELF TO BE DETERMINED AND ALSO
THIS IS A GROUP THAT HAS SHOWN
TO HAVE THE TECHNICAL CAPABILITY
ITSELF TO BE DETERMINED AND ALSO
TO SHIP BOMBS TO THE UNITED
TO HAVE THE TECHNICAL CAPABILITY
STATES.
TO SHIP BOMBS TO THE UNITED
>> NOW REPORTEDLY THIS LATEST
STATES.
ITERATION OF THE THREATS AND THE
>> NOW REPORTEDLY THIS LATEST
WARNINGS CAME FROM SOME SORT OF
ITERATION OF THE THREATS AND THE
INTERCEPTED COMMUNICATION
WARNINGS CAME FROM SOME SORT OF
BETWEEN THE HEAD OF A.Q.A.P. AND
INTERCEPTED COMMUNICATION
AL ZAWARI HEAD OF AL QAEDA
BETWEEN THE HEAD OF A.Q.A.P. AND
CENTRAL OF COURSE BELIEVED TO BE
AL ZAWARI HEAD OF AL QAEDA
BASED IN PAKISTAN.
CENTRAL OF COURSE BELIEVED TO BE
TO WHAT DEGREE DOES THE HEAD OF
BASED IN PAKISTAN.
A.Q.A.P. TAKE DIRECTION FROM THE
TO WHAT DEGREE DOES THE HEAD OF
CENTRAL AL QAEDA?
A.Q.A.P. TAKE DIRECTION FROM THE
>> RIGHT.
CENTRAL AL QAEDA?
THAT'S AN EXCELLENT QUESTION,
>> RIGHT.
MARGARET.
THAT'S AN EXCELLENT QUESTION,
SO AL WUAHYSHI, THE HEAD OF
MARGARET.
A.Q.A.P., HE HAS A GREAT DEAL OF
SO AL WUAHYSHI, THE HEAD OF
OPERATIONAL INDEPENDENCE.
A.Q.A.P., HE HAS A GREAT DEAL OF
SO HE'S DECIDING WHEN THESE
OPERATIONAL INDEPENDENCE.
PLOTS ARE GOING TO BE LAUNCHED,
SO HE'S DECIDING WHEN THESE
WHEN THEY'RE NOT.
PLOTS ARE GOING TO BE LAUNCHED,
WHAT IT APPEARS THAT ANOTHER
WHEN THEY'RE NOT.
LEADER IS DOING IS HE'S PUTTING
WHAT IT APPEARS THAT ANOTHER
PRESSURE ON WUAHYSHI AND SAYING,
LEADER IS DOING IS HE'S PUTTING
LOOK, YOU NEED TO CARRY OUT A
PRESSURE ON WUAHYSHI AND SAYING,
STRIKE.
LOOK, YOU NEED TO CARRY OUT A
YOU NEED TO DO THIS.
STRIKE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HE DID
YOU NEED TO DO THIS.
JUST LAST WEEK IN AN OPEN VIDEO
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HE DID
TO GROUPS IN EGYPT AS WELL.
JUST LAST WEEK IN AN OPEN VIDEO
IT'S SOMETHING QUITE COMMON IN
TO GROUPS IN EGYPT AS WELL.
AL QAEDA.
IT'S SOMETHING QUITE COMMON IN
WE OFTEN SAW OWE OSAMA BIN LADEN
AL QAEDA.
PUTTING PRESSURE ON AFFILIATES
WE OFTEN SAW OWE OSAMA BIN LADEN
IN DIFFERENT PLACES TO CARRY OUT
PUTTING PRESSURE ON AFFILIATES
ATTACKS BUT THE FINAL WORD ON
IN DIFFERENT PLACES TO CARRY OUT
SOMETHING LIKE THIS IS GOING TO
ATTACKS BUT THE FINAL WORD ON
COME FROM THE PEOPLE ON THE
SOMETHING LIKE THIS IS GOING TO
GROUND, THE PEOPLE IN YEMEN,
COME FROM THE PEOPLE ON THE
PEOPLE LIKE WUAHYSHI FOR THE
GROUND, THE PEOPLE IN YEMEN,
REASON WE'RE SEEING TODAY.
PEOPLE LIKE WUAHYSHI FOR THE
COMMUNICATION BACK AND FORTH
REASON WE'RE SEEING TODAY.
BETWEEN YEMEN AND PAKISTAN IS
COMMUNICATION BACK AND FORTH
EASILY INTERCEPTED.
BETWEEN YEMEN AND PAKISTAN IS
>> Warner: AND THAT PROBABLY
EASILY INTERCEPTED.
EXPLAINS THE INTENSIFIED U.S.
>> Warner: AND THAT PROBABLY
DRONE STRIKES IN YEMEN OVER THE
EXPLAINS THE INTENSIFIED U.S.
PAST WEEK.
DRONE STRIKES IN YEMEN OVER THE
FINALLY, HOW AGGRESSIVELY IS THE
PAST WEEK.
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN AND THIS NEW
FINALLY, HOW AGGRESSIVELY IS THE
PRESIDENT GOING AFTER A.Q.A.P.
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN AND THIS NEW
BOTH ON ITS OWN AND IN CONCERT
PRESIDENT GOING AFTER A.Q.A.P.
WITH THE U.S.?
BOTH ON ITS OWN AND IN CONCERT
>> RIGHT.
WITH THE U.S.?
WELL THE NEW GOVERNMENT UNDER
>> RIGHT.
PRESIDENT HADI WHO WAS JUST IN
WELL THE NEW GOVERNMENT UNDER
THE U.S. LAST WEEK MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT HADI WHO WAS JUST IN
PRESIDENT OBAMA, PRESIDENT HADI
THE U.S. LAST WEEK MEETING WITH
HAS GIVEN THE U.S. A GREEN LIGHT
PRESIDENT OBAMA, PRESIDENT HADI
TO CARRY OUT STRIKES IN A
HAS GIVEN THE U.S. A GREEN LIGHT
VARIETY OF DIFFERENT PLACES AT
TO CARRY OUT STRIKES IN A
THE TIMES OF THE U.S. CHOOSING.
VARIETY OF DIFFERENT PLACES AT
HE'S DOING THIS BECAUSE HE HAS A
THE TIMES OF THE U.S. CHOOSING.
LACK OF DOMESTIC SUPPORT WITHIN
HE'S DOING THIS BECAUSE HE HAS A
YEMEN.
LACK OF DOMESTIC SUPPORT WITHIN
SO HE NEEDS THE U.S. TO MAKE UP
YEMEN.
FOR THAT LACK OF DOMESTIC
SO HE NEEDS THE U.S. TO MAKE UP
SUPPORT.
FOR THAT LACK OF DOMESTIC
SO THERE'S AN OPEN COMMUNICATION
SUPPORT.
WHICH IS MUCH DIFFERENT NOW THAN
SO THERE'S AN OPEN COMMUNICATION
IT WAS FROM WHEN THE FORMER
WHICH IS MUCH DIFFERENT NOW THAN
PRESIDENT WAS IN CHARGE.
IT WAS FROM WHEN THE FORMER
BUT WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS IN CHARGE.
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT IN YEMEN IS
BUT WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT THE
INCREDIBLY WEAK.
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT IN YEMEN IS
THERE'S A SEPARATE INSURRECTION
INCREDIBLY WEAK.
THAT'S GOING ON UP IN THE NORTH.
THERE'S A SEPARATE INSURRECTION
THERE'S CALLS FOR SECESSION IN
THAT'S GOING ON UP IN THE NORTH.
THE SOUTH.
THERE'S CALLS FOR SECESSION IN
THERE'S THE AL QAEDA THREAT.
THE SOUTH.
THE ECONOMY CONTINUES TO
THERE'S THE AL QAEDA THREAT.
COLLAPSE.
THE ECONOMY CONTINUES TO
PEOPLE IN YEMEN ARE STRUGGLING
COLLAPSE.
ON A DAILY BASIS TO PUT FOOD ON
PEOPLE IN YEMEN ARE STRUGGLING
THE TABLE AND WATER INTO THEIR
ON A DAILY BASIS TO PUT FOOD ON
CUPS.
THE TABLE AND WATER INTO THEIR
WHEN ALL OF THAT IS TAKING
CUPS.
PLACE, AL QAEDA TENDS TO DROP
WHEN ALL OF THAT IS TAKING
DOWN ON THE LIST OF PRIORITIES
PLACE, AL QAEDA TENDS TO DROP
FOR A COUNTRY LIKE YEMEN.
DOWN ON THE LIST OF PRIORITIES
>> AND AT THE SAME TIME THEY PUT
FOR A COUNTRY LIKE YEMEN.
FERTILE GROUND FOR AL QAEDA.
>> AND AT THE SAME TIME THEY PUT
GREGORY JOHNSON OTF PRINCETON,
FERTILE GROUND FOR AL QAEDA.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
GREGORY JOHNSON OTF PRINCETON,
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
NEWSHOUR: AN EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
WITH DONALD GRAHAM OF THE
NEWSHOUR: AN EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW
"WASHINGTON POST"; OPENING
WITH DONALD GRAHAM OF THE
ARGUMENTS IN THE FORT HOOD COURT
"WASHINGTON POST"; OPENING
MARTIAL; DEPUTY SECRETARY OF
ARGUMENTS IN THE FORT HOOD COURT
DEFENSE ASHTON CARTER; AND
MARTIAL; DEPUTY SECRETARY OF
INSIDE THE WORLD'S SECOND
DEFENSE ASHTON CARTER; AND
LARGEST REFUGEE CAMP.
INSIDE THE WORLD'S SECOND
BUT FIRST, WITH THE OTHER NEWS
LARGEST REFUGEE CAMP.
OF THE DAY, HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
BUT FIRST, WITH THE OTHER NEWS
>> Reporter: TWO U.S. SENATORS
OF THE DAY, HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
URGED EGYPT'S INTERIM LEADERS
>> Reporter: TWO U.S. SENATORS
TODAY TO RELEASE JAILED MEMBERS
URGED EGYPT'S INTERIM LEADERS
OF THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
TODAY TO RELEASE JAILED MEMBERS
REPUBLICANS JOHN McCAIN AND
OF THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
LINDSEY GRAHAM VISITED CAIRO IN
REPUBLICANS JOHN McCAIN AND
A BID TO HELP RESOLVE THE STAND-
LINDSEY GRAHAM VISITED CAIRO IN
OFF BETWEEN THE MILITARY-BACKED
A BID TO HELP RESOLVE THE STAND-
GOVERNMENT AND SUPPORTERS OF
OFF BETWEEN THE MILITARY-BACKED
OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI.
GOVERNMENT AND SUPPORTERS OF
>> WE BELIEVE THEY SHOULD TREAT
OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI.
EACH OTHER WITH RESPECT.
>> WE BELIEVE THEY SHOULD TREAT
WE ALSO URGE THE RELEASE OF
EACH OTHER WITH RESPECT.
POLITICAL PRISONERS.
WE ALSO URGE THE RELEASE OF
WE ALSO URGE STRONGLY A NATIONAL
POLITICAL PRISONERS.
DIALOGUE, A NATIONAL DIALOGUE
WE ALSO URGE STRONGLY A NATIONAL
THAT IS INCLUSIVE FOR PARTIES
DIALOGUE, A NATIONAL DIALOGUE
INCLUDING THE MUSLIM
THAT IS INCLUSIVE FOR PARTIES
BROTHERHOOD.
INCLUDING THE MUSLIM
>> Reporter: SENATOR GRAHAM SAID
BROTHERHOOD.
THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT RISKS
>> Reporter: SENATOR GRAHAM SAID
JEOPARDIZING RELATIONS WITH THE
THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT RISKS
U.S. IF IT EXCLUDES BROTHERHOOD
JEOPARDIZING RELATIONS WITH THE
MEMBERS FROM POLITICAL
U.S. IF IT EXCLUDES BROTHERHOOD
NEGOTIATIONS.
MEMBERS FROM POLITICAL
A SPATE OF CAR BOMBINGS AROUND
NEGOTIATIONS.
BAGHDAD KILLED MORE THAN 50
A SPATE OF CAR BOMBINGS AROUND
IRAQIS TODAY AS THE RECENT SURGE
BAGHDAD KILLED MORE THAN 50
OF VIOLENCE SHOWED NO SIGNS OF
IRAQIS TODAY AS THE RECENT SURGE
EASING.
OF VIOLENCE SHOWED NO SIGNS OF
THE ATTACKS BEGAN JUST BEFORE
EASING.
SUNSET AND CONTINUED INTO THE
THE ATTACKS BEGAN JUST BEFORE
NIGHT.
SUNSET AND CONTINUED INTO THE
MORE THAN 650 PEOPLHAVEE  BEEN
NIGHT.
KILLED IN IRAQ DURING THE MUSLIM
MORE THAN 650 PEOPLHAVEE  BEEN
HOLY MONTH OF RAMADAN.
KILLED IN IRAQ DURING THE MUSLIM
IN SYRIA, REBELS CLAIMED THEY'VE
HOLY MONTH OF RAMADAN.
CAPTURED A KEY AIR BASE IN THE
IN SYRIA, REBELS CLAIMED THEY'VE
NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.
CAPTURED A KEY AIR BASE IN THE
THE BASE IS IN THE NORTHERN
NORTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.
ALEPPO PROVINCE AND HAS BEEN
THE BASE IS IN THE NORTHERN
UNDER SIEGE SINCE LAST YEAR.
ALEPPO PROVINCE AND HAS BEEN
VIDEO FROM THE SITE SHOWED
UNDER SIEGE SINCE LAST YEAR.
REBELS APPARENTLY INSPECTING THE
VIDEO FROM THE SITE SHOWED
AREA NEAR THE TURKISH BORDER.
REBELS APPARENTLY INSPECTING THE
SYRIAN STATE TV INSISTED
AREA NEAR THE TURKISH BORDER.
GOVERNMENT TROOPS STILL ARE
SYRIAN STATE TV INSISTED
FIGHTING THERE.
GOVERNMENT TROOPS STILL ARE
THE NEW PRESIDENT OF IRAN
FIGHTING THERE.
ANNOUNCED TODAY HIS COUNTRY IS
THE NEW PRESIDENT OF IRAN
READY FOR "SERIOUS" TALKS ON ITS
ANNOUNCED TODAY HIS COUNTRY IS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
READY FOR "SERIOUS" TALKS ON ITS
HASSAN ROHANI HELD HIS FIRST
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
NEWS CONFERENCE SINCE TAKING
HASSAN ROHANI HELD HIS FIRST
OFFICE SUNDAY.
NEWS CONFERENCE SINCE TAKING
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
OFFICE SUNDAY.
ALEX THOMSON OF INDEPENDENT
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
TELEVISION NEWS.
ALEX THOMSON OF INDEPENDENT
>> Reporter: "TRANSPARENCY" IS A
TELEVISION NEWS.
FAVORITE ROUHANI BUZZWORD, SO HE
>> Reporter: "TRANSPARENCY" IS A
DULY APPEARED IN FRONT OF THE
FAVORITE ROUHANI BUZZWORD, SO HE
PACKED MEDIA.
DULY APPEARED IN FRONT OF THE
THE NATIONAL ANTHEM, PRAYERS AND
PACKED MEDIA.
THE FOREIGN MEDIA GOT DOWN TO
THE NATIONAL ANTHEM, PRAYERS AND
BUSINESS.
THE FOREIGN MEDIA GOT DOWN TO
IRANIAN AND FOREIGN JOURNALISTS
BUSINESS.
ASKING ABOUT THE NUCLEAR
IRANIAN AND FOREIGN JOURNALISTS
DEADLOCK ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF
ASKING ABOUT THE NUCLEAR
HIROSHIMA.
DEADLOCK ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF
RUSSIA SAID TODAY SHE WANTS
HIROSHIMA.
TALKS NEXT MONTH.
RUSSIA SAID TODAY SHE WANTS
PRESIDENT ROUHANI SAYS A DEAL IS
TALKS NEXT MONTH.
DOABLE AND DOABLE SOON IF THE
PRESIDENT ROUHANI SAYS A DEAL IS
WEST, AS HE PUT IT, STOPS THE
DOABLE AND DOABLE SOON IF THE
THREATS AND STARTS ENGAGEMENT.
WEST, AS HE PUT IT, STOPS THE
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
THREATS AND STARTS ENGAGEMENT.
WILLING WITH SERIOUSNESS AND
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
WITHOUT TIME-WASTING TO ENTER
WILLING WITH SERIOUSNESS AND
SERIOUS AND SUBSTANTIAL
WITHOUT TIME-WASTING TO ENTER
NEGOTIATIONS WITH OUR
SERIOUS AND SUBSTANTIAL
COUNTERPARTS.
NEGOTIATIONS WITH OUR
IF OUR COUNTERPARTS HAVE THE
COUNTERPARTS.
SAME WILLINGNESS, I AM CERTAIN
IF OUR COUNTERPARTS HAVE THE
THAT THE CONCERNS OF BOTH
SAME WILLINGNESS, I AM CERTAIN
PARTIES WILL THROUGH TALKS BE
THAT THE CONCERNS OF BOTH
ELIMINATED, AND IN THE NOT TOO
PARTIES WILL THROUGH TALKS BE
DISTANT FUTURE.
ELIMINATED, AND IN THE NOT TOO
THE ROOT OF THIS ACHIEVEMENT HAS
DISTANT FUTURE.
TO BE DISCUSSIONS, NOT THREATS.
THE ROOT OF THIS ACHIEVEMENT HAS
THAT IS THE KEY TO THIS ISSUE.
TO BE DISCUSSIONS, NOT THREATS.
>> Reporter: THE MAN WHO SPENT
THAT IS THE KEY TO THIS ISSUE.
YEARS AS A KEY IRANIAN
>> Reporter: THE MAN WHO SPENT
NEGOTIATOR ON THE NUCLEAR
YEARS AS A KEY IRANIAN
DEADLOCK SAID THE WAR MONGERING
NEGOTIATOR ON THE NUCLEAR
OF ANOTHER STATE WAS IMPOSING
DEADLOCK SAID THE WAR MONGERING
ITS AGENDA ON AMERICA.
OF ANOTHER STATE WAS IMPOSING
HE DIDN'T MENTION ISRAEL BY
ITS AGENDA ON AMERICA.
NAME, BUT HE DID SEND THEM A
HE DIDN'T MENTION ISRAEL BY
MESSAGE TODAY, SAYING IRANIANS
NAME, BUT HE DID SEND THEM A
ARE NOT INTERESTED IN
MESSAGE TODAY, SAYING IRANIANS
THREATENING OR INTIMIDATING ANY
ARE NOT INTERESTED IN
OTHER COUNTRY.
THREATENING OR INTIMIDATING ANY
>> ( translated ): THE WORST
OTHER COUNTRY.
APPROACH IS TO SHOUT SHARPLY
>> ( translated ): THE WORST
THEN ACT SLOWLY.
APPROACH IS TO SHOUT SHARPLY
WE HOPE TO MAKE LONG STRIDES IN
THEN ACT SLOWLY.
ACTION, BUT CALM ONES IN
WE HOPE TO MAKE LONG STRIDES IN
EXPRESSING OURSELVES POLITELY,
ACTION, BUT CALM ONES IN
WITH WISDOM, WITH ALL OF THE
EXPRESSING OURSELVES POLITELY,
WORLD, SO THAT THE WORLD
WITH WISDOM, WITH ALL OF THE
BELIEVES WE HAVE NO INTENTION OF
WORLD, SO THAT THE WORLD
THREATENING ANYONE.
BELIEVES WE HAVE NO INTENTION OF
>> Reporter: HE SPELLED OUT YET
THREATENING ANYONE.
AGAIN IRAN SEEKS NUCLEAR POWER,
>> Reporter: HE SPELLED OUT YET
NOT NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
AGAIN IRAN SEEKS NUCLEAR POWER,
THIS IS A MAN WHO HAS PERSUADED
NOT NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
HIS COUNTRY IN THE PAST TO
THIS IS A MAN WHO HAS PERSUADED
SUSPEND THE NUCLEAR PROGRAM TO
HIS COUNTRY IN THE PAST TO
HELP TALKS IN 2005.
SUSPEND THE NUCLEAR PROGRAM TO
IT GOT NOWHERE.
HELP TALKS IN 2005.
IRAN SINCE THEN HAS BEEN
IT GOT NOWHERE.
REPEATEDLY ACCUSED OF HIDING
IRAN SINCE THEN HAS BEEN
ELEMENTS OF IT'S NUCLEAR
REPEATEDLY ACCUSED OF HIDING
PROGRAM.
ELEMENTS OF IT'S NUCLEAR
>> Reporter: IN WASHINGTON, A
PROGRAM.
STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN
>> Reporter: IN WASHINGTON, A
SAID IRAN NOW HAS A CHANCE TO
STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESWOMAN
"ACTUICK QLY" ON CONCERNS ABOUT
SAID IRAN NOW HAS A CHANCE TO
ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
"ACTUICK QLY" ON CONCERNS ABOUT
THE LATEST LOOK AT RISING
ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
MILITARY SUICIDE RATES CONCLUDES
THE LATEST LOOK AT RISING
THERE IS LITTLE OR NO CONNECTION
MILITARY SUICIDE RATES CONCLUDES
TO COMBAT.
THERE IS LITTLE OR NO CONNECTION
INSTEAD, THE STUDY AT THE NAVAL
TO COMBAT.
RESEARCH CENTER IN SAN DIEGO
INSTEAD, THE STUDY AT THE NAVAL
BLAMES DEPRESSION AND ALCOHOL
RESEARCH CENTER IN SAN DIEGO
PROBLEMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS.
BLAMES DEPRESSION AND ALCOHOL
RESEARCHERS TRACKED MORE THAN
PROBLEMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS.
145,000 ACTIVE DUTY TROOPS AND
RESEARCHERS TRACKED MORE THAN
VETERANS FROM 2001 TO 2008.
145,000 ACTIVE DUTY TROOPS AND
THE FINDINGS WERE PUBLISHED
VETERANS FROM 2001 TO 2008.
TODAY IN THE "JOURNAL OF THE
THE FINDINGS WERE PUBLISHED
AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION."
TODAY IN THE "JOURNAL OF THE
FORMER PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH
AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION."
UNDERWENT A SUCCESSFUL HEART
FORMER PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH
PROCEDURE TODAY IN TEXAS.
UNDERWENT A SUCCESSFUL HEART
DOCTORS AT A DALLAS HOSPITAL
PROCEDURE TODAY IN TEXAS.
PLACED A STENT IN A BLOCKED
DOCTORS AT A DALLAS HOSPITAL
ARTERY.
PLACED A STENT IN A BLOCKED
THE BLOCKAGE WAS DISCOVERED ON
ARTERY.
MONDAY DURING THE FORMER
THE BLOCKAGE WAS DISCOVERED ON
PRESIDENT'S ANNUAL PHYSICAL.
MONDAY DURING THE FORMER
MR. BUSH IS 67 YEARS OLD.
PRESIDENT'S ANNUAL PHYSICAL.
HE'S EXPECTED TO BE RELEASED
MR. BUSH IS 67 YEARS OLD.
TOMORROW.
HE'S EXPECTED TO BE RELEASED
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS RENEWED HIS
TOMORROW.
PUSH FOR MORTGAGE REFORM.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS RENEWED HIS
IN PHOENIX TODAY, THE PRESIDENT
PUSH FOR MORTGAGE REFORM.
CALLED FOR PHASING OUT FANNIE
IN PHOENIX TODAY, THE PRESIDENT
MAE AND FREDDIE MAC, THE
CALLED FOR PHASING OUT FANNIE
GOVERNMENT-BACKED MORTGAGE
MAE AND FREDDIE MAC, THE
GIANTS.
GOVERNMENT-BACKED MORTGAGE
HE SAID TAXPAYERS SHOULD NOT
GIANTS.
HAVE TO SUFFER WHEN LENDERS MAKE
HE SAID TAXPAYERS SHOULD NOT
POOR DECISIONS.
HAVE TO SUFFER WHEN LENDERS MAKE
>> WE'VE GOT TO ENCOURAGE THE
POOR DECISIONS.
PURSUIT OF PROFIT BUT' ERA OF
>> WE'VE GOT TO ENCOURAGE THE
PURSUE YOUR PROFIT AND YOU DON'T
PURSUIT OF PROFIT BUT' ERA OF
MANAGE YOUR RISK WELL, WELL,
PURSUE YOUR PROFIT AND YOU DON'T
THAT PUTS THE WHOLE COUNTRY AT
MANAGE YOUR RISK WELL, WELL,
RISK.
THAT PUTS THE WHOLE COUNTRY AT
WE'RE ENDING THOSE DAYS.
RISK.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO THAT
WE'RE ENDING THOSE DAYS.
ANYMORE.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO THAT
( APPLAUSE )
ANYMORE.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDE SAINTD
( APPLAUSE )
HE WANTS THE PRIVATE SECTOR TO
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDE SAINTD
ASSUME MOST OF THE RISK WHILE
HE WANTS THE PRIVATE SECTOR TO
CONTINUING TO OFFER THE POPULAR
ASSUME MOST OF THE RISK WHILE
30-YEAR MORTGAGE.
CONTINUING TO OFFER THE POPULAR
WALL STREET GAVE UP GROUND TODAY
30-YEAR MORTGAGE.
OVER WARNINGS OF WEAKER PROFITS.
WALL STREET GAVE UP GROUND TODAY
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
OVER WARNINGS OF WEAKER PROFITS.
LOST 94 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
15,518.
LOST 94 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
THE NASDAQ FELL 27 POINTS TO
15,518.
CLOSE AT 3,665.
THE NASDAQ FELL 27 POINTS TO
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
CLOSE AT 3,665.
MAJOR STORIES.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
MAJOR STORIES.
>> Ifill: PEOPLE IN NEWSROOMS
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
AND AT WATER COOLERS ACROSS THE
>> Ifill: PEOPLE IN NEWSROOMS
COUNTRY WERE ABUZZ TODAY WITH
AND AT WATER COOLERS ACROSS THE
WORD THAT THE FLAGSHIP PAPER IN
COUNTRY WERE ABUZZ TODAY WITH
THE NATION'S CAPITAL IS ABOUT TO
WORD THAT THE FLAGSHIP PAPER IN
BE SOLD TO AN INTERNET PIONEER.
THE NATION'S CAPITAL IS ABOUT TO
>> NOBODY KNEW IT WAS FOR SALE.
BE SOLD TO AN INTERNET PIONEER.
>> Ifill: WASHINGTON RESIDENTS
>> NOBODY KNEW IT WAS FOR SALE.
AND THE NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY WERE
>> Ifill: WASHINGTON RESIDENTS
STILL REELING TODAY OVER NEWS
AND THE NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY WERE
ABOUT THE NEWS THAT AMAZON
STILL REELING TODAY OVER NEWS
FOUNDER JEFF BEZOS IS BUYING THE
ABOUT THE NEWS THAT AMAZON
"WASHINGTON POST."
FOUNDER JEFF BEZOS IS BUYING THE
PUBLISHER KATHARINE WEYMOUTH,
"WASHINGTON POST."
PART OF THE FAMILY THAT OWNS THE
PUBLISHER KATHARINE WEYMOUTH,
PAPER, SAID BEZOS WILL PAY $250
PART OF THE FAMILY THAT OWNS THE
MILLION FOR THE "POST" AND ITS
PAPER, SAID BEZOS WILL PAY $250
SMALLER PUBLICATIONS.
MILLION FOR THE "POST" AND ITS
TODAY, SHE EXPLAINED THE
SMALLER PUBLICATIONS.
DECISION TO A "WASHINGTON POST"
TODAY, SHE EXPLAINED THE
INTERVIEWER.
DECISION TO A "WASHINGTON POST"
>> THIS IS A TRANSITION TO A
INTERVIEWER.
GOOD OWNER WHO HAS A LOT HE
>> THIS IS A TRANSITION TO A
COULD BRING TO US.
GOOD OWNER WHO HAS A LOT HE
AND WE WEREN'T ON THE AUCTIONS
COULD BRING TO US.
BLOCK AND JUST AUCTIONED TO THE
AND WE WEREN'T ON THE AUCTIONS
HIGHEST BIDDER.
BLOCK AND JUST AUCTIONED TO THE
>> Ifill: THE PURCHASE WILL END
HIGHEST BIDDER.
NEARLY EIGHT DECADES OF
>> Ifill: THE PURCHASE WILL END
OWNERSHIP BY THE GRAHAM FAMILY.
NEARLY EIGHT DECADES OF
PRIARATCH EUGENE MEYER BOUGHT
OWNERSHIP BY THE GRAHAM FAMILY.
THE "POST" AT AUCTION IN 1933.
PRIARATCH EUGENE MEYER BOUGHT
HIS DAUGHTER, KATHERINE GRAHAM,
THE "POST" AT AUCTION IN 1933.
LED THE PAPER AS IT ROSE TO
HIS DAUGHTER, KATHERINE GRAHAM,
NATIONAL PROMINENCE BEGINNING IN
LED THE PAPER AS IT ROSE TO
THE 1970s, FIRST WITH ITS
NATIONAL PROMINENCE BEGINNING IN
COVERAGE OF THE PENTAGON PAPERS
THE 1970s, FIRST WITH ITS
UNDER EXECUTIVE EDITOR BEN
COVERAGE OF THE PENTAGON PAPERS
BRADLEE AND THEN WATERGATE, AND
UNDER EXECUTIVE EDITOR BEN
BOB WOODWARD AND CARL
BRADLEE AND THEN WATERGATE, AND
BERNSTEIN'S PULITZER PRIZE-
BOB WOODWARD AND CARL
WINNING REPORTING THAT BROUGHT
BERNSTEIN'S PULITZER PRIZE-
DOWN PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON.
WINNING REPORTING THAT BROUGHT
>> I SHALL RESIGN THE PRESIDENCY
DOWN PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON.
EFFECTIVE AT NOON TOMORROW.
>> I SHALL RESIGN THE PRESIDENCY
>> Ifill: HER SON, DONALD
EFFECTIVE AT NOON TOMORROW.
GRAHAM, FOLLOWED IN HER
>> Ifill: HER SON, DONALD
FOOTSTEPS.
GRAHAM, FOLLOWED IN HER
SUBSCRIPTIONS PEAKED IN 1993 AT
FOOTSTEPS.
MORE THAN 800,000, BUT, LIKE
SUBSCRIPTIONS PEAKED IN 1993 AT
MANY OTHER PAPERS, THE "POST"
MORE THAN 800,000, BUT, LIKE
HAS FACED DECLINING CIRCULATION
MANY OTHER PAPERS, THE "POST"
AND AD REVENUE IN THE DIGITAL
HAS FACED DECLINING CIRCULATION
AGE.
AND AD REVENUE IN THE DIGITAL
>> I'VE BEEN A SUBSCRIBER
AGE.
BEFORE, BUT I DON'T REALLY
>> I'VE BEEN A SUBSCRIBER
SUBSCRIBE TO ANYTHING ANY MORE.
BEFORE, BUT I DON'T REALLY
I READ EVERYTHING ONLINE.
SUBSCRIBE TO ANYTHING ANY MORE.
>> Ifill: ENTER DIGITAL GIANT
I READ EVERYTHING ONLINE.
BEZOS.
>> Ifill: ENTER DIGITAL GIANT
FORMER EXECUTIVE EDITOR LEONARD
BEZOS.
DOWNIE SAYS THE BET IS THAT THE
FORMER EXECUTIVE EDITOR LEONARD
ONLINE SHOPPING PIONEER CAN
DOWNIE SAYS THE BET IS THAT THE
ENSURE THE "POST'S" SURVIVAL.
ONLINE SHOPPING PIONEER CAN
>> JEFF BEZOS UNDERSTANDS THIS
ENSURE THE "POST'S" SURVIVAL.
NEW WORLD THAT WE'RE IN AND THAT
>> JEFF BEZOS UNDERSTANDS THIS
ALL NEWS ORGANIZATIONS HAVE TO
NEW WORLD THAT WE'RE IN AND THAT
ADAPT TO, WHETHER ITS CHANNEL 7
ALL NEWS ORGANIZATIONS HAVE TO
OR THE "WASHINGTON POST."
ADAPT TO, WHETHER ITS CHANNEL 7
>> Ifill: THE POST IS HARDLY
OR THE "WASHINGTON POST."
ALONE IN SEEKING BUYERS WITH
>> Ifill: THE POST IS HARDLY
DEEP POCKS.ET
ALONE IN SEEKING BUYERS WITH
OVER THE WEEKEND, "NEWSWEEK"
DEEP POCKS.ET
MAGAZINE WAS SOLD TO I.B.T.
OVER THE WEEKEND, "NEWSWEEK"
MEDIA, THE PUBLISHER OF
MAGAZINE WAS SOLD TO I.B.T.
"INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS TIMES."
MEDIA, THE PUBLISHER OF
RED SOX OWNER JOHN HENRY BOUGHT
"INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS TIMES."
THE "BOSTON GLOBE" FROM THE "NEW
RED SOX OWNER JOHN HENRY BOUGHT
YORK TIMES COMPANY" FOR $70
THE "BOSTON GLOBE" FROM THE "NEW
MILLION.
YORK TIMES COMPANY" FOR $70
AND THE TRIBUNE COMPANY'S
MILLION.
NEWSPAPER DIVISION, WHICH OWNS
AND THE TRIBUNE COMPANY'S
THE "LOS ANGELES TIMES,"
NEWSPAPER DIVISION, WHICH OWNS
"CHICAGO IBUNTRE" AND THE
THE "LOS ANGELES TIMES,"
"BALTIMORE SUN," IS ALSO ON THE
"CHICAGO IBUNTRE" AND THE
BLOCK.
"BALTIMORE SUN," IS ALSO ON THE
DONALD GRAHAM IS CHAIRMAN AND
BLOCK.
C.E.O. OF THE "WASHINGTON POST"
DONALD GRAHAM IS CHAIRMAN AND
COMPANY.
C.E.O. OF THE "WASHINGTON POST"
HE JOINS ME NOW.
COMPANY.
FULL DISCLOSURE, I WORKED FOR
HE JOINS ME NOW.
YOU FOR THE "WASHINGTON POST."
FULL DISCLOSURE, I WORKED FOR
>> I WAS GOING TO ASK IF YOU
YOU FOR THE "WASHINGTON POST."
DISCLOSED YOUR TERRIBLE
>> I WAS GOING TO ASK IF YOU
CONFLICT.
DISCLOSED YOUR TERRIBLE
>> FOR SEVEN GREAT YEARS IN THE
CONFLICT.
1980s.
>> FOR SEVEN GREAT YEARS IN THE
RUTH MARCUS ONE OF YOUR LEADING
1980s.
COLUMNISTS SAID THAT THIS IS A
RUTH MARCUS ONE OF YOUR LEADING
BRAVE AND PAINFUL DECISION FOR
COLUMNISTS SAID THAT THIS IS A
YOUR FAMILY TO MAKE.
BRAVE AND PAINFUL DECISION FOR
WAS IT ALSO A NECESSARY ONE?
YOUR FAMILY TO MAKE.
>> WELL, WE THOUGHT SO.
WAS IT ALSO A NECESSARY ONE?
THE PUBLISHER OF THE POST NOW IS
>> WELL, WE THOUGHT SO.
CATHERINE WAY MUT.
THE PUBLISHER OF THE POST NOW IS
THAT'S A JOB THAT I HELD WHEN
CATHERINE WAY MUT.
YOU WERE ON THE PAPER.
THAT'S A JOB THAT I HELD WHEN
I HELD IT FOR 21 YEARS.
YOU WERE ON THE PAPER.
BUT CATHERINE AND I SAT DOWN AT
I HELD IT FOR 21 YEARS.
THE END OF LAST YEAR, THE END OF
BUT CATHERINE AND I SAT DOWN AT
2012.
THE END OF LAST YEAR, THE END OF
WE LOOKED AT HOW HOW THE PAPER
2012.
HAD DONE IN 2012 AND WHAT WE
WE LOOKED AT HOW HOW THE PAPER
COULD REASONABLY EXPECT GOING
HAD DONE IN 2012 AND WHAT WE
FORWARD.
COULD REASONABLY EXPECT GOING
201 IS THE 7th CONSECUTIVE
FORWARD.
YEAR THE PAPER HAS BEEN DOWN IN
201 IS THE 7th CONSECUTIVE
REVENUES SO WHAT DO YOU DO WHEN
YEAR THE PAPER HAS BEEN DOWN IN
YOU HAVE LESS MONEY COMING IN
REVENUES SO WHAT DO YOU DO WHEN
THE DOOR?
YOU HAVE LESS MONEY COMING IN
YOU TRY TO INNOVATE.
THE DOOR?
WE'VE BEEN PRETTY SUCCESSFUL AT
YOU TRY TO INNOVATE.
THAT.
WE'VE BEEN PRETTY SUCCESSFUL AT
BUT NOT SUCCESSFUL ENOUGH
THAT.
>> Ifill: 44% DECLINE.
BUT NOT SUCCESSFUL ENOUGH
YOU'RE GOING BACK OVER
>> Ifill: 44% DECLINE.
SEVERAL YEARS THERE.
YOU'RE GOING BACK OVER
BUT THAT'S RIGHT.
SEVERAL YEARS THERE.
AND MOSTLY WE HAVE HAD TO CUT
BUT THAT'S RIGHT.
COSTS.
AND MOSTLY WE HAVE HAD TO CUT
THE YEAR OF THE FINANCIAL
COSTS.
CRISIS, 2009 WAS A VERY
THE YEAR OF THE FINANCIAL
CHALLENGING YEAR FOR US.
CRISIS, 2009 WAS A VERY
CATHERINE AND HER TEAM THEN
CHALLENGING YEAR FOR US.
BROUGHT THE PAPERBACK TO CASH
CATHERINE AND HER TEAM THEN
FLOW PROFITABILITY THE LAST
BROUGHT THE PAPERBACK TO CASH
THREE YEARS.
FLOW PROFITABILITY THE LAST
WE CERTAINLY WANTED TO REMAIN
THREE YEARS.
PROFITABLE, BUT AROUND NEW
WE CERTAINLY WANTED TO REMAIN
YEAR'S DAY OF THIS YEAR WE
PROFITABLE, BUT AROUND NEW
STARTED TO ASK YOURSELVES FOR
YEAR'S DAY OF THIS YEAR WE
THE FIRST TIME WHETHER IT WAS
STARTED TO ASK YOURSELVES FOR
POSSIBLE THAT THERE WAS ANOTHER
THE FIRST TIME WHETHER IT WAS
OWNER WHO WOULD BE BETTER FOR
POSSIBLE THAT THERE WAS ANOTHER
THE POST THAN OUR COMPANY HAD
OWNER WHO WOULD BE BETTER FOR
BEEN
THE POST THAN OUR COMPANY HAD
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU SAY THAT,
BEEN
DOES THAT MEAN THAT THERE ARE
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU SAY THAT,
THINGS THAT YOU DID OR DIDN'T DO
DOES THAT MEAN THAT THERE ARE
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS YOU
THINGS THAT YOU DID OR DIDN'T DO
WISH YOU HAD THAT YOU DIDN'T
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS YOU
HAVE THE VISION TO SEE?
WISH YOU HAD THAT YOU DIDN'T
>> WELL, THE ONE SENTENCE THAT I
HAVE THE VISION TO SEE?
THINK EVERYBODY IN OUR BUILDING
>> WELL, THE ONE SENTENCE THAT I
AND EVERYONE IN THIS BUILDING
THINK EVERYBODY IN OUR BUILDING
WOULD AGREE WITH, GWEN, IS EVERY
AND EVERYONE IN THIS BUILDING
YEAR IN THE FUTURE A FEW MORE
WOULD AGREE WITH, GWEN, IS EVERY
PEOPLE, A HIGHER PERCENTAGE OF
YEAR IN THE FUTURE A FEW MORE
PEOPLE, WILL READ THEIR NEWS
PEOPLE, A HIGHER PERCENTAGE OF
ONLINE OR ON MOBILE DEVICES JUST
PEOPLE, WILL READ THEIR NEWS
LIKE THE WOMAN WHOSE VIDEO CLIP
ONLINE OR ON MOBILE DEVICES JUST
YOU SHOWED AT THE START OF THIS
LIKE THE WOMAN WHOSE VIDEO CLIP
SEGMENT.
YOU SHOWED AT THE START OF THIS
AND SLIGHTLY FEWER PEOPLE WILL
SEGMENT.
READ IN PRINT.
AND SLIGHTLY FEWER PEOPLE WILL
THE POST PRINT CIRCULATION
READ IN PRINT.
REMAINS ABNORMALLY HIGH FOR
THE POST PRINT CIRCULATION
METRO DAILY FOR THE NUMBER 8 TV
REMAINS ABNORMALLY HIGH FOR
MARKET IN THE COUNTRY.
METRO DAILY FOR THE NUMBER 8 TV
BUT OUR PAPER IS BASICALLY TIED
MARKET IN THE COUNTRY.
FOR FIRST IN PRINT CIRCULATION
BUT OUR PAPER IS BASICALLY TIED
WITH THE LOS ANGELES TIMES WHICH
FOR FIRST IN PRINT CIRCULATION
IS IN A MUCH BETTER MARKET.
WITH THE LOS ANGELES TIMES WHICH
YOU KNOW, WE STARTED TO THINK TO
IS IN A MUCH BETTER MARKET.
OURSELVES, FOR EXAMPLE, THE
YOU KNOW, WE STARTED TO THINK TO
TECHNOLOGY SOPHISTICATION OF
OURSELVES, FOR EXAMPLE, THE
SOMEBODY LIKE JEFF BEZOS
TECHNOLOGY SOPHISTICATION OF
SURPASSES MINE.
SOMEBODY LIKE JEFF BEZOS
WHEN I STARTED ON THE PAPER WHEN
SURPASSES MINE.
WE WERE STILL USING LEAD TYPE
WHEN I STARTED ON THE PAPER WHEN
NOT ALTOGETHER DPIS SIMILAR FROM
WE WERE STILL USING LEAD TYPE
WHAT BEN FRANKLIN WAS USING IN
NOT ALTOGETHER DPIS SIMILAR FROM
THE 18th CENTURY.
WHAT BEN FRANKLIN WAS USING IN
>> AMONG YOUR SUITORS OF WHICH
THE 18th CENTURY.
THERE WERE MORE THAN A FEW, JEFF
>> AMONG YOUR SUITORS OF WHICH
BEZOS WAS APPEALING TO YOU
THERE WERE MORE THAN A FEW, JEFF
BECAUSE HE'S A DIGITAL NATIVE.
BEZOS WAS APPEALING TO YOU
IS THAT A PART OF IT?
BECAUSE HE'S A DIGITAL NATIVE.
>> WELL, I'VE KNOWN JEFF BEZOS
IS THAT A PART OF IT?
FOR 15 YEARS.
>> WELL, I'VE KNOWN JEFF BEZOS
HE IS AND IS KNOWN TO BE AN
FOR 15 YEARS.
EXTRAORDINARILY DECENT MAN.
HE IS AND IS KNOWN TO BE AN
I GOT THE JOY OF GETTING TO KNOW
EXTRAORDINARILY DECENT MAN.
HIS WIFE A BIT.
I GOT THE JOY OF GETTING TO KNOW
IT STARTS WITH THAT.
HIS WIFE A BIT.
HE'S PRINCIPLED.
IT STARTS WITH THAT.
HE'S ALSO A READER AND A VERY
HE'S PRINCIPLED.
GOOD WRITER, AS A STATEMENT TO
HE'S ALSO A READER AND A VERY
OUR STAFF WHICH HAS BEEN WIDELY
GOOD WRITER, AS A STATEMENT TO
QUOTED REFLECTS.
OUR STAFF WHICH HAS BEEN WIDELY
HE WROTE THAT HIMSELF.
QUOTED REFLECTS.
HE WRITES AMAZON'S ANNUAL
HE WROTE THAT HIMSELF.
SHAREHOLDER LETTER BY HIMSELF.
HE WRITES AMAZON'S ANNUAL
HE'S KNOWN FOR BEING A VERY
SHAREHOLDER LETTER BY HIMSELF.
PATIENT LONG-TERM INVESTOR, AS
HE'S KNOWN FOR BEING A VERY
HE WAS WITH AMAZON ITSELF, AS HE
PATIENT LONG-TERM INVESTOR, AS
WAS WITH THE KINDLE AND HAS BEEN
HE WAS WITH AMAZON ITSELF, AS HE
MANY OTHER TIMES SO... AND I
WAS WITH THE KINDLE AND HAS BEEN
DON'T WANT TO APPEAR TO BE
MANY OTHER TIMES SO... AND I
SPEAKING FOR JEFF BUT HE DID
DON'T WANT TO APPEAR TO BE
SPEAK FOR HIMSELF IN HIS LETTER
SPEAKING FOR JEFF BUT HE DID
YESTERDAY.
SPEAK FOR HIMSELF IN HIS LETTER
HE'S NOT GOING TO WALK IN THE
YESTERDAY.
DOOR WITH SOLUTIONS.
HE'S NOT GOING TO WALK IN THE
BUT HE WILL WALK IN THE DOOR
DOOR WITH SOLUTIONS.
READY TO TRY THINGS.
BUT HE WILL WALK IN THE DOOR
IF YOU'RE JEFF BEZOS OR HIS
READY TO TRY THINGS.
PEERS, THE FOUNDERS OR CEOs OF
IF YOU'RE JEFF BEZOS OR HIS
GREAT INTERNET COMPANIES, YOU
PEERS, THE FOUNDERS OR CEOs OF
KNOW A LOT OF GREAT TECHNOLOGY.
GREAT INTERNET COMPANIES, YOU
>> IN FACT YOUR PUBLISHER AND
KNOW A LOT OF GREAT TECHNOLOGY.
YOUR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR AND
>> IN FACT YOUR PUBLISHER AND
YOUR EXECUTIVE EDITOR WILL STAY
YOUR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR AND
IN PLACE NOW.
YOUR EXECUTIVE EDITOR WILL STAY
>> JEFF HAS ASKED THE WHOLE
IN PLACE NOW.
MANAGEMENT TEAM TO STAY ON.
>> JEFF HAS ASKED THE WHOLE
THAT INCLUDES CATHERINE AND
MANAGEMENT TEAM TO STAY ON.
MARTY AND FRED HYATT THE
THAT INCLUDES CATHERINE AND
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR WHO HAS
MARTY AND FRED HYATT THE
BEEN ON YOUR PROGRAM.
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR WHO HAS
>> YOU KNOW, I WORKED WITH FOUR
BEEN ON YOUR PROGRAM.
NEWSPAPERS ALTOGETHER OVER TIME.
>> YOU KNOW, I WORKED WITH FOUR
I'M NOT THE ONLY ONE IN THE
NEWSPAPERS ALTOGETHER OVER TIME.
BUSINESS AND OUT OF THE BUSINESS
I'M NOT THE ONLY ONE IN THE
WHO WONDER WHETHER THIS ISN'T A
BUSINESS AND OUT OF THE BUSINESS
TURNING POINT WHEN A GREAT
WHO WONDER WHETHER THIS ISN'T A
FAMILY-OWNED NEWSPAPER HANDS
TURNING POINT WHEN A GREAT
ITSELF OVER TO SOMEONE WHO
FAMILY-OWNED NEWSPAPER HANDS
DOESN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH
ITSELF OVER TO SOMEONE WHO
JOURNALISM.
DOESN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH
AT LEAST DOESN'T HAVE ANY
JOURNALISM.
HISTORY IN THAT.
AT LEAST DOESN'T HAVE ANY
>> I HOPE IT IS.
HISTORY IN THAT.
JEFF HAD FULLY AS MUCH TO DO
>> I HOPE IT IS.
WITH JOURNALISM AND HIS PREVIOUS
JEFF HAD FULLY AS MUCH TO DO
CAREER AS EUGENE MEYER MY
WITH JOURNALISM AND HIS PREVIOUS
GRANDFATHER WHO BOUGHT THE POST
CAREER AS EUGENE MEYER MY
IN 1933.
GRANDFATHER WHO BOUGHT THE POST
HAVING NEVER WORKED A DAY ON A
IN 1933.
NEWSPAPER AND NEVER HAVING OWNED
HAVING NEVER WORKED A DAY ON A
A BUSINESS.
NEWSPAPER AND NEVER HAVING OWNED
BUT HE HAD GREAT MID 20th
A BUSINESS.
CENTURY SKILLS.
BUT HE HAD GREAT MID 20th
HIS SKILLS WERE FINANCIAL.
CENTURY SKILLS.
HE HAD BEEN AN VEFERROR.
HIS SKILLS WERE FINANCIAL.
HE HAD MADE A LOT OF MONEY ON
HE HAD BEEN AN VEFERROR.
WALL INDUSTRY.
HE HAD MADE A LOT OF MONEY ON
THEN HE HAD BEEN A SENIOR
WALL INDUSTRY.
GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.
THEN HE HAD BEEN A SENIOR
BECAUSE HIS ETHICS WERE PRETTY
GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL.
HIGH HE STAYED IN GOVERNMENT
BECAUSE HIS ETHICS WERE PRETTY
BONDS DURING THE DEPRESSION SO
HIGH HE STAYED IN GOVERNMENT
HIS ETHICS NOT HIS INVESTING
BONDS DURING THE DEPRESSION SO
SKILL GOT HIM THROUGH.
HIS ETHICS NOT HIS INVESTING
HE TRIED THINGS.
SKILL GOT HIM THROUGH.
HE DIED TO IMPROVE THE PAPER.
HE TRIED THINGS.
HE TRIED TO MAKE IT BETTER.
HE DIED TO IMPROVE THE PAPER.
TRIED TO GROW CIRCULATION, TRIED
HE TRIED TO MAKE IT BETTER.
TO GROW ADVERTISING.
TRIED TO GROW CIRCULATION, TRIED
JEFF, WHO IS ALSO A VERY SKILLED
TO GROW ADVERTISING.
BUSINESSMAN, IS GOING TO COME IN
JEFF, WHO IS ALSO A VERY SKILLED
AND AS THE WORD HE USED WAS
BUSINESSMAN, IS GOING TO COME IN
"EXPERIMENT."
AND AS THE WORD HE USED WAS
>> Ifill: I HEARD YOU TELL YOUR
"EXPERIMENT."
STAFF YOU'VE BEEN IN THAT
>> Ifill: I HEARD YOU TELL YOUR
BUILDING IN SOME JOB OR THE
STAFF YOU'VE BEEN IN THAT
OTHER FOR 42 YEARS.
BUILDING IN SOME JOB OR THE
>> I FIRST WAS IN THE
OTHER FOR 42 YEARS.
"WASHINGTON POST" BUILDING IN
>> I FIRST WAS IN THE
JANUARY 1949 TO SEE HARRY
"WASHINGTON POST" BUILDING IN
TRUMAN'S INAUGURAL PARADE WHEN I
JANUARY 1949 TO SEE HARRY
WAS THREE.
TRUMAN'S INAUGURAL PARADE WHEN I
>> Ifill: THERE YOU GO.
WAS THREE.
SO, TELL ME.
>> Ifill: THERE YOU GO.
WHAT DO YOU THINK THIS MEANS OR
SO, TELL ME.
NOT JUST YOU BUT WHAT'S
WHAT DO YOU THINK THIS MEANS OR
HAPPENING WITH TRIBUNE AND THESE
NOT JUST YOU BUT WHAT'S
OTHER PAPERS.
HAPPENING WITH TRIBUNE AND THESE
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR THE
OTHER PAPERS.
FUTURE OF NEWSPAPERS AS WE HAVE
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR THE
COME TO KNOW THEM SOME.
FUTURE OF NEWSPAPERS AS WE HAVE
>> THE POST IS IN A DIFFERENT
COME TO KNOW THEM SOME.
POSITION FROM OTHER NEWSPAPERS.
>> THE POST IS IN A DIFFERENT
WE HAVE A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
POSITION FROM OTHER NEWSPAPERS.
BUSINESS THAN THEY DO BECAUSE
WE HAVE A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
EAR IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL.
BUSINESS THAN THEY DO BECAUSE
WE HAVE AN INTERNET FOLLOWING
EAR IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL.
THAT'S PRETTY LARGE RELATIVE TO
WE HAVE AN INTERNET FOLLOWING
THE SIZE OF WASHINGTON.
THAT'S PRETTY LARGE RELATIVE TO
WE'RE IN THE CAPITAL FREE WORLD.
THE SIZE OF WASHINGTON.
WE TRY TO REPORT ON WHAT GOES ON
WE'RE IN THE CAPITAL FREE WORLD.
HERE AND WHAT GOES ON AROUND THE
WE TRY TO REPORT ON WHAT GOES ON
WORLD THAT IS RELEVANT TO
HERE AND WHAT GOES ON AROUND THE
DECISIONS IN WASHINGTON.
WORLD THAT IS RELEVANT TO
WE'RE AN INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER.
DECISIONS IN WASHINGTON.
OUR EDITORIAL PAGE IS NOT
WE'RE AN INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER.
CONSISTENTLY DOWN THE LINE WITH
OUR EDITORIAL PAGE IS NOT
EITHER THE DEMOCRATIC OR THE
CONSISTENTLY DOWN THE LINE WITH
REPUBLICAN PARTIES.
EITHER THE DEMOCRATIC OR THE
SO OUR BUSINESS IS A LITTLE BIT
REPUBLICAN PARTIES.
DIFFERENT.
SO OUR BUSINESS IS A LITTLE BIT
BUT I THINK WHAT IT MEANS IS
DIFFERENT.
THAT THE POST IS GOING TO BE AN
BUT I THINK WHAT IT MEANS IS
EXTRAORDINARILY EXCITING PLACE
THAT THE POST IS GOING TO BE AN
TO BE.
EXTRAORDINARILY EXCITING PLACE
I CAN'T IMAGINE A NEWS
TO BE.
ORGANIZATION BEING MORE EXCITING
I CAN'T IMAGINE A NEWS
PLACE IN THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE
ORGANIZATION BEING MORE EXCITING
>> Ifill: WHAT DOES IT MEAN THAT
PLACE IN THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE
WE SEE SO MANY PRINT PROPERTIES
>> Ifill: WHAT DOES IT MEAN THAT
BEING SOLD TO WEALTHY
WE SEE SO MANY PRINT PROPERTIES
INDIVIDUALS RATHER THAN TO
BEING SOLD TO WEALTHY
MULTIGENERATIONAL FAMILIES.
INDIVIDUALS RATHER THAN TO
>> JEFF IS MORE THAN A WEALTHY
MULTIGENERATIONAL FAMILIES.
INDIVIDUAL.
>> JEFF IS MORE THAN A WEALTHY
HE IS SOMEBODY WHO HAD AN IDEA
INDIVIDUAL.
15, 20 YEARS AGO, CRAZY IDEA
HE IS SOMEBODY WHO HAD AN IDEA
THAT HE COULD SUCCESSFULLY SELL
15, 20 YEARS AGO, CRAZY IDEA
BOOKS ON THE INTERNET.
THAT HE COULD SUCCESSFULLY SELL
HE'S A READER.
BOOKS ON THE INTERNET.
HE'S A WRITER.
HE'S A READER.
UNUSUALLY OUT AT AMAZON MEETINGS
HE'S A WRITER.
DON'T START WITH SLIDE
UNUSUALLY OUT AT AMAZON MEETINGS
PRESENTATIONS OR POWER POINTS.
DON'T START WITH SLIDE
AT JEFF'S REQUEST THEY START
PRESENTATIONS OR POWER POINTS.
WITH WHOEVER CONVENES THE
AT JEFF'S REQUEST THEY START
MEETING WRITING AN ESSAY.
WITH WHOEVER CONVENES THE
THE FIRST TEN MINUTES EVERYBODY
MEETING WRITING AN ESSAY.
SITS DOWN AND READS WHAT THE
THE FIRST TEN MINUTES EVERYBODY
PERSON CONDUCTING THE MEETING
SITS DOWN AND READS WHAT THE
WROTE.
PERSON CONDUCTING THE MEETING
WHY?
WROTE.
BECAUSE HE THINKS WRITING
WHY?
REQUIRES THOUGHT.
BECAUSE HE THINKS WRITING
SO THAT IS A LITTLE TRIBUTE TO
REQUIRES THOUGHT.
THE POWER OF THE WRITTEN WORD.
SO THAT IS A LITTLE TRIBUTE TO
THIS IS A VERY FINE BUSINESS
THE POWER OF THE WRITTEN WORD.
EXECUTIVE.
THIS IS A VERY FINE BUSINESS
WARREN BUFFET HAS CALLED JEFF
EXECUTIVE.
THE BEST CEO IN AMERICA.
WARREN BUFFET HAS CALLED JEFF
HE'S ALSO... HE'S
THE BEST CEO IN AMERICA.
EXTRAORDINARILY THOUGHTFUL BUT
HE'S ALSO... HE'S
OBVIOUSLY, GWEN, FOR YOU AND FOR
EXTRAORDINARILY THOUGHTFUL BUT
ME OUR FUTURE IS INTEGRAL.
OBVIOUSLY, GWEN, FOR YOU AND FOR
>> Ifill: I WANT TO PUT ON YOUR
ME OUR FUTURE IS INTEGRAL.
BIG THINKING HAT AND TELL ME
>> Ifill: I WANT TO PUT ON YOUR
WHETHER YOU THINK THERE IS A
BIG THINKING HAT AND TELL ME
GENERATIONAL SHIFT GOING NOT
WHETHER YOU THINK THERE IS A
ONLY AMONG READERS OF THE
GENERATIONAL SHIFT GOING NOT
NEWSPAPER BUT ALSO OWNERS OF THE
ONLY AMONG READERS OF THE
NEWSPAPERS.
NEWSPAPER BUT ALSO OWNERS OF THE
>> AGAIN, I HOPE SO.
NEWSPAPERS.
I'M 68 YEARS OLD SO I'M NOT
>> AGAIN, I HOPE SO.
GOING TO BE, YOU KNOW, I'M GOING
I'M 68 YEARS OLD SO I'M NOT
TO BE... SOON TO BE RENAMED
GOING TO BE, YOU KNOW, I'M GOING
"WASHINGTON POST" COMPANY FOR
TO BE... SOON TO BE RENAMED
QUITE SOME TIME I HOPE.
"WASHINGTON POST" COMPANY FOR
BUT, YOU KNOW, BY BRINGING
QUITE SOME TIME I HOPE.
SOMEBODY LIKE JEFF BEZOS IN AS
BUT, YOU KNOW, BY BRINGING
THE OWNER OF THE "WASHINGTON
SOMEBODY LIKE JEFF BEZOS IN AS
POST" WE'RE I THINK CREATING AN
THE OWNER OF THE "WASHINGTON
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE READERS OF
POST" WE'RE I THINK CREATING AN
THE POST, FOR THOSE WHO WORK
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE READERS OF
THERE.
THE POST, FOR THOSE WHO WORK
IT COULD BECOME, I THINK IT WILL
THERE.
BECOME, A VERY EXCITING PLACE.
IT COULD BECOME, I THINK IT WILL
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP DOING WHAT
BECOME, A VERY EXCITING PLACE.
WE'VE DONE.
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP DOING WHAT
WE HAVE THE SKILLS OF THE PEOPLE
WE'VE DONE.
IN THE BUILDING PLUS THE SKILLS
WE HAVE THE SKILLS OF THE PEOPLE
OF JEFF BEZOS
IN THE BUILDING PLUS THE SKILLS
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU A BLUNT
OF JEFF BEZOS
QUESTION.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU A BLUNT
>> DO YOU WANT TO KNOW ABOUT
QUESTION.
YOUR PENSION PLAN?
>> DO YOU WANT TO KNOW ABOUT
>> NOT REALLY.
YOUR PENSION PLAN?
I WANT TO KNOW, ONE MEDIA
>> NOT REALLY.
ANALYST SAID YOU LUCKED OUT IN
I WANT TO KNOW, ONE MEDIA
GETTING JEFF BEZOS BECAUSE YOU
ANALYST SAID YOU LUCKED OUT IN
MAY SAVE THE PEOPLE.
GETTING JEFF BEZOS BECAUSE YOU
IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE DOING NOW?
MAY SAVE THE PEOPLE.
>> NO, I THINK THE PAPER WOULD
IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE DOING NOW?
HAVE SURVIVED IF WE HAD NOT SOLD
>> NO, I THINK THE PAPER WOULD
THE PAPER IT WOULD HAVE SURVIVED
HAVE SURVIVED IF WE HAD NOT SOLD
FINE UNDER OUR OWNERSHIP UNDER
THE PAPER IT WOULD HAVE SURVIVED
THE CURRENT COMPANY.
FINE UNDER OUR OWNERSHIP UNDER
WE WOULD HAVE HAD TO KEEP
THE CURRENT COMPANY.
CUTTING EXPENSES AS LONG AS
WE WOULD HAVE HAD TO KEEP
REVENUE FELL.
CUTTING EXPENSES AS LONG AS
AND OUR ASPIRATIONS FOR THE POST
REVENUE FELL.
HAVE ALWAYS BEEN WAY MORE THAN
AND OUR ASPIRATIONS FOR THE POST
SURVIVAL.
HAVE ALWAYS BEEN WAY MORE THAN
YOU WANT TO SUCCEED, YOU WANT TO
SURVIVAL.
EXPAND, WE WANT TO BE A GREAT
YOU WANT TO SUCCEED, YOU WANT TO
PLACE.
EXPAND, WE WANT TO BE A GREAT
IN THE WAY THAT I THINK MEANS
PLACE.
SOMETHING TO YOU
IN THE WAY THAT I THINK MEANS
>> Ifill: DON GRAHAM OF THE CEO
SOMETHING TO YOU
OF THE SOON TO BE RENAMED
>> Ifill: DON GRAHAM OF THE CEO
"WASHINGTON POST" COMPANY.
OF THE SOON TO BE RENAMED
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
"WASHINGTON POST" COMPANY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH, GWEN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
GOOD BEING WITH YOU.
>> Warner: THE COURT MARTIAL OF
THE ARMY PSYCHIATRIST WHO OPENED
FIRE ON SCORES OF FELLOW
SOLDIERS IN 2009 GOT UNDER WAY
TODAY AT FORT HOOD IN TEXAS.
MAJOR NIDAL HASAN IS CHARGED
WITH MANY COUNTS OF MURDER AND
ATTEMPTED MURDER FOR THETTAC AK
THAT KILLED 13 PEOPLE.
AND WOUNDED MORE THAN 30.
IN AN OPENING STATEMENT, THE
PROSECUTOR SAID HASAN HAD TRIED
TO "KILL AS MANY SOLDIERS AS HE
COULD."
IN HIS OPENING STATEMENT, HASAN,
WHO IS REPRESENTING HIMSELF,
SAID, "THE EVIDENCE WILL CLEARLY
SHOW THAT I AM THE SHOOTER."
"LOS ANGELES TIMES" REPORTER
MOLLY HENNESSEY-FISKE IS
COVERING THE TRIAL AND JOINS US
FROM FORT HOOD.
MOLLY, WELCOME.
LET'S START WITH THAT, THE MOST
DRAMATIC MOMENT OF TODAY WHICH
IS COLONEL HASAN ADMITTING HE
WAS THE SHOOTER.
WHAT WAS THAT MOMENT LIKE?
WHAT ELSE DID HE HAVE TO SAY?
>> WELL, THERE WERE A LOT OF
OPEN QUESTIONS GOING INTO THESE
OPENING STATEMENTS.
IT WASN'T CLEAR SINCE MAJOR
HASAN, AS YOU MENTIONED, IS
REPRESENTING HIMSELF, WHAT HE
WAS GOING TO SAY, WHETHER HE WAS
GOING TO USE OPENING STATEMENTS
AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE A
STATEMENT AND GO BEYOND ACTING
AS HIS OWN ATTORNEY.
BUT HE KEPT IT BRIEF.
HE ONLY SPOKE FOR SEVERAL
MINUTES.
HE DID TALK ABOUT THE FACTS
POINTING TO HIM BEING THE
SHOOTER.
HE MADE SOME OTHER STATEMENTS
ABOUT HIS ALLEGIANCES ON HOW TO
BE IN THE ARMY BUT SWITCHING
SIDES AND THEN TALKED ABOUT
VIEWING HIMSELF AS A HUGE HA
DEAN BUT WAS VERY BRIEF.
LATER ON IN THE DAY WE SEVERAL
WITNESSES SPEAK BUT MAJOR HASAN
DECLINEDDED TO TAKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO CROSS-EXAMINE
LARGELY.
THERE WERE SOME INSTANCES WHERE
HE DID BUT AGAIN THAT WAS FAIRLY
BRIEF.
>> Warner: HE WAS RESPONDING, OF
COURSE, TO THE OPENING STATEMENT
BY THE MILITARY PROSECUTOR.
WHAT KIND OF A CASE DID THAT
PROSECUTOR LAY OUT AGAINST HIM?
>> WELL, THE PROSECUTOR TALKD AT
ONE... OR ONE OF THE PROSECUTORS
TALKED IN OPENING STATEMENTS
ABOUT WANTING TO PROVE NOT ONLY
THAT MAJOR HASAN COMMITTED THE
SHOOTING BUT ALSO HIS MOTIVE
THAT THESE SHOOTINGS... THE
CHARGES, PREMEDITATED MURDER AND
ATTEMPTED PREMEDITATED MURDER
THAT IT WAS PREMEDITATED THAT HE
HAD MOTIVE.
SO SOME OF THE WITNESSES THAT WE
SAW EARLIER IN THE DAY HAD TO DO
WITH THAT.
THE INDIVIDUAL WHO THE
PROSECUTORS WERE SAYING HAD SOLD
THE WEAPONS, THE GUNS TO MAJOR
HASAN, A GENTLEMAN FROM THE
SHOOTING RANGE WHERE HE
APPARENTLY HAD PRACTICED TARGET
SHOOTING WITH SILHOUETTES AND
THE SILHOUETTE SHAPES INSTEAD OF
TARGET SHAPES AND THEN SOME
INDIVIDUAL WHO HAD KNOWN HIM
FROM HIS APARTMENT COMPLEX AND
ALSO FROM THE MOSQUE THAT HE
ATTENDED HERE.
>> Warner: IF MAJOR HASAN IS
ADMITTING HE WAS THE SHOOTER,
WHY DIDN'T HE JUST PLEAD GUILTY
OR NEGOTIATE AN AGREEMENT THERE?
>> WELL, IN MILITARY COURT IN
CAPITAL CASES LIKE THIS ONE
WHERE HE IS FACING THE
POTENTIAL, IF CONVICTED, OF
FACING THE DEATH PENALTY, HE'S
NOT ALLOWED TO PLEAD GUILTY.
HE HAD ALSO TRIEDED TO MOUNT A
DIFFERENT KIND OF DEFENSE ONCE
HE TOOK OVER AS HIS OWN ATTORNEY
AND ARGUE.
IT'S CALLED THE DEFENSE OF
OTHERS DEFENSE WHERE HE WAS
ARGUING THAT HE HAD DONE THE
SHOOTING BUT THAT HE HAD DONE IT
IN ORDER TO PROTECT INDIVIDUALS
OVERSEAS.
HE TARRING HEED... HE SAID HE
TARGETED SOLDIERS WHO WERE
PREPARING TO DEPLOY BECAUSE HE
WANTED TO PROTECT MEMBERS OF THE
TALIBAN WHO HE SAW AS ALLIES.
BUT THE JUDGE THUS FAR HAS
REJECTED THAT SENTENCE SO IT'S
SORT OF UNCLEAR WHAT DEFENSE
HE'S GOING TO PURSUE, WHAT
DEFENSE STRATEGY.
>> AND THEN HOW DID IT COME
ABOUT THAT HE IS REPRESENTING
HIMSELF?
>> WELL HE HAD HAD CIVILIAN
LAWYER IN THE BEGINNING.
HE HAD FIRED HIS CIVILIAN
LAWYER.
THEN HE HAD MILITARY LAWYERS AND
HE HAD REQUESTED TO REPRESENT
HIMSELF IN RECENT MONTHS.
AND THE JUDGE ALLOWED THAT.
HE HAD NOT INITIALLY WANT HIS
MILITARY LAWYERS TO STAY ON BUT
THE JUDGE ASKED THAT THEY STAY
ON AS A STAND-BY COUNSELOR OR A
MILITARY LEGAL ADD VIEDZOR.
SO THOSE LAYER... LAWYERS ARE
THERE.
TWO OF THEM SIT AT THE DETEN
TABLE WITH MAJOR HASAN AND A
THIRD SITS IN THE GALLERY.
THEY ARE THERE TO OFFER HIM
ADVICE ON MILITARY LAW.
THERE WAS ONE POINT TODAY WHERE
HE SORT OF PAUSED TO CONSULT
WITH THEM ON A PARTICULAR
MATTER.
>> AND WAS THERE A DETERMINATION
MADE ABOUT HIS MENTAL
COMPETENCE?
>> TO SERVE AS HIS OWN LAWYER, I
GUESS TO STAND TRIAL?
>> THERE WAS.
THAT HAPPENED EARLY ON.
THERE WAS ALSO A SORT OF
SECONDARY EVALUATION DONE WHERE
THEY TOOK INTO CONSIDERATION HIS
PHYSICAL STATUS IN TERMS OF
BEING PHYSICALLY ABLE TO
REPRESENT HIMSELF BECAUSE HE'S
IN A WHEELCHAIR.
HE WAS SHOT DURING THE ATTACK
AND IS PARALYZED FROM THE CHEST
DOWN.
THAT WAS A CONSIDERATION BUT HE
INSISTED THAT HE WAS STRONG
ENOUGH TO DO IT.
THAT HE COULD TAKE BREAKS.
BUT IT'S OKAY WITH SITTING FOR
LONG PERIODS OF TIME, THAT IT'S
GOING TO REQUIRE FOR THIS TRIAL
BECAUSE THE JUDGE HAS ALREADY
ESTIMATED THAT IT'S PROBABLY
GOING TO TAKE AT LEAST A MONTH
AND POSSIBLY SEVERAL MONTHS
>> Warner: FINALLYING OF COURSE,
THIS IS A MILITARY TRIAL NOT A
CIVILIAN CRIMINAL TRIAL.
WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES THAT MAKE
IN THE WAY THE TRIAL IS
CONDUCTED, THE RULES OF EVIDENCE
AND OF COURSE THE DISWRIR?
>> WELL, THERE'S A LOT OF
DIFFERENCES.
YOU HAVE A JURY THAT IS MADE UP
OF 13 INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE OF
MAJOR HASAN'S RANK OR HIGHER SO
YOU HAVE A MAJOR, SIMILAR TO
MAJOR HASAN.
THEN YOU ALSO HAVE COLONELS,
THREE COLONELS AND NINE
LIEUTENANT-GOLS WHICH IS A
HIGH-RANKING CROWD.
THESE ARE ELITE INDIVIDUALS WHO
SERVED IN COMMAND POSTS.
I THINK 11 OF THE 13 HAVE SERVED
IN COMMANDS.
A NUMBER OF THEM HAVE SERVED
OVERSEAS IN AFGHANISTAN AND
IRAQ.
THESE ARE, YOU KNOW, SKILLED
INDIVIDUALS WITH A LOT OF, YOU
KNOW, BURNISHED RECORDS.
ONE OF THEM, AT LEAST ONE OF
THEM ATTENDED WEST POINT.
A LOT OF THEM HAVED ADVANCED
DEGREES.
IN TERMS OF A VERDICT, THEY HAVE
TO HAVE UNANIMOUS VERDICT IN
ORDER TO HAVE A DEATH SENTENCE.
WHAT HAPPENS IS THEY MAKE A VOTE
BY SECRET BALLOT ON WHAT THEIR
VERDICT IS GOING TO BE.
IF THEY CAN'T ACHIEVE A
TWO-THIRDS MAJORITY THEN THEY
END UP QUITTING SO IT'S
SIGNIFICANTLY DIFFERENT FROM A
CIVILIAN TRIAL.
>> Warner: MOLLY HENNESSEY-FISK
OF THE LOS ANGELES TIMES, THANK
YOU.
>> Ifill: THE PENTAGON PUSHES
BACK AGAINST WHAT THEY DESCRIBE
AS CRIPPLING BUDGET CUTS.
RAY SUAREZ HAS THE STORY.
>> Suarez: THE DEFENSE
DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCED TODAY IT
WAS REDUCING THE NUMBER OF DAYS
ITS EMPLOYEES WOULD HAVE TO TAKE
AS UNPAID FURL OWE FROM 11 TO
SIX.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, THE DEFENSE
DEPARTMENT LAUNCHED A REVIEW TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT TO CUT TO LIVE
WITHIN THE BUDGET CONSTRAINTS
IMPOSED BY SEQUESTRATION AND
FEDERAL BUDGET CUTS.
THE PENTAGON HAS COMPLETED THAT
REVIEW.
WITH ME NOW IS DEPUTY SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE ASHTON CARTER WHO LED
IT.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
>> GOOD TO BE HERE
Suarez: BEFORE WE TALK
DOLLARS AND CENTS EARLIER IN THE
PROGRAM WE TALKD ABOUT THE
CLOSURE OF FOREIGN MISSIONS, THE
EVACUATION OF AMERICAN
PERSONNEL.
WE'VE BEEN POUNDING... THE
UNITED STATES HAS BEEN POUNDING
AL QAEDA IN THE ARABIAN
PENINSULA FROM THE AIR FOR
YEARS.
HOW COME THEY'RE STILL SO ABLE
TO LAUNCH ATTACKS AGAINST
AMERICAN INTERESTS AND ASSETS.
>> WE HAVE BEEN POUNDING THEM
FOR YEARS.
BUT WE'RE TAKING THE SITUATION
WE FACE RIGHT NOW VERY
SERIOUSLY.
YOU SEE THAT IN THE POSTURE THAT
WE HAVE.
THIS PROBLEM OF TERRORISM, YOU
KNOW, AL QAEDA AND SO FORTH, IS
SOMETHING THAT IS GOING TO BE
PART OF OUR STRATEGIC FUTURE.
THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS WE
CONSIDERED IN THE REVIEW.
AS LONG AS THERE'S HUMAN
SOCIETY.
NOW THERE'S ALWAYS GOING TO BE
THE PROBLEM OF THE FEW AGAINST
THE MANY.
SO THOSE OF US WHO HAVE THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR SECURITY ARE
ALWAYS GOING TO NEED TO BE
CONCERNED ABOUT
COUNTERTERRORISM.
IT IS AN ENDURING MISSION OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
AS WE IN THE REVIEW LOOKED AT
ALL THE THINGS WE NEEDED TO DO
IN THE FUTURE AND BEGAN THIS
GREAT REORIENTATION OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FROM IRAQ
AND AFGHANISTAN WHICH HAD BEEN
THE PRINCIPAL THING THAT HAS
BEEN PREOCCUPYING US FOR THE
LAST DECADE TO THE FUTURE, AS WE
LOOK AT THOSE PROBLEMS YOU SEE,
YES, TERRORISM WILL NEED TO STAY
GOOD AT COUNTERTERRORISM.
YOU SEE THE GROWING IMPORTANCE
OF THE ASIA-PACIFIC THEATER.
WE'RE SPENDING A LOT MORE
ATTENTION AS A DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE ON THAT.
YOU SEE NEW THINGS LIKE CYBER...
ENTIRELY NEW THINGS.
THAT'S WHY OUR STRATEGY OR OUR
EFFORT TO DEAL WITH THE CURRENT
BUDGET SITUATION, WE BELIEVE,
HAS TO BE DRIVEN BY STRATEGY.
THAT IS, A VIEW OF THE FUTURE.
TERRORISM IS ONE OF THOSE THINGS
THAT'S GOING TO BE AROUND.
>> NOW THAT THE REVIEW IS
COMPLETED, YOU STILL DON'T KNOW
EXACTLY HOW MUCH MONEY YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO SPEND IN THE
YEARS TO COME.
BUT WHAT EFFECT HAS
SEQUESTRATION HAVE TO DAY-TO-DAY
OPERATIONS, WHAT YOU'VE BEEN
GIVEN TO DO BY THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE?
>> WELL, UNFORTUNATELY, SEE
CREST TRAITION IS THE WORSTATE
WAY TO CUT OUR BUDGET.
WE HAVE TAKEN REDUCTIONS ALREADY
IN THE DEFENSE BUDGET.
WHAT THE REVIEW SHOWED CLEARLY
WAS THAT THEY CAN OVER TIME GET
TO THE BUDGET-CUT LEVELS CALLED
FOR BY SEQUESTRATION.
AND WE CAN DO THAT IN A
STRATEGICALLY AND MANAGERIALLY
SENSIBLE WAY BUT IT TAKES SOME
TIME.
WHY IS THAT?
WELL, IT TAKES SOME TIME TO CUT
THINGS, TO LET PEOPLE GO, TO
STOP DOING THINGS.
ALL THE SENSIBLE THINGS YOU DO.
WHAT HAPPENS IN SEQUESTRATION
IS, BOOM, WE'RE HIT VERY HARD
VERY STEEPLY.
THAT DRIVES YOU TO DO THINGS
THAT WEREN'T STRATEGIC AND MAG
ALLY SOUND LIKE STAND DOWN
READINESS, JUST STOP FLYING.
BECAUSE YOU CAN'T AFFORD TO DO
THE FLYING.
WELL, IF WE STAND DOWN THE AIR
FORCE UNITS THAT ARE SUPPOSED TO
BE FLYING, THAT MEANS THAT
THEY'RE NOT TRAINING FOR:  00
CONTINGENCIES FOR WHICH WE MIGHT
NEED THEM.
THAT'S A SERIOUS STEP TO HAVE TO
TAKE.
IT'S ONE YOU WOULD NEVER TAKE
FROM A STRATEGIC OR MANAGERIAL
POINT OF VIEW BUT IT IS FORCED
UPON US BY SEQUESTER.
IF WE CAN GET SOME TIME THAT WE
CAN DEAL WITH THESE BUDGET CUTS
MUCH BETTER THAN IF THEY JUST
COME DOWN ON US IN A WAY THAT
THWARTS GOOD MANAGEMENT
>> Ifill: THERE ARE PEOPLE
SITTING IN THEIR HOMES WATCHING
THIS BROADCAST WHO THINK, WELL,
IF THEY TAKE A SMALL HAIRCUT
LIKE EVERY FEDERAL DEPARTMENT
HAD TO, THAT'S FROM A VERY HIGH
LEVEL.
WE SPEND A MULTIPLE OF THE
AMOUNT OF MONEY OF THE NEXT
SEVERAL MILITARIES IN THE WORLD
BEHIND US.
GIVE US SOME EXAMPLES, SPECIFIC
EXAMPLES OF WHAT YOU HAD TO DO
WITHOUT IN THE NEAR TERM BECAUSE
OF THESE BUDGET CUTS.
>> BECAUSE OF SEQUESTRATION,
VERY SPECIFICALLY, WE HAVE HAD
TO STOP TRAINING FOR BOTH GROUND
UNITS AND AIR UNITS.
STOP SENDING SHIPS ON PATROL AND
HAVING THEM TRAIN AND BE READY
FOR CONFLICT.
WHAT WE'VE TRIED TO DO IS TAKE
ALL OF THE MONEY WE'VE GOT AND
PUT IT INTO THINGS THAT ARE MOST
OBVIOUSLY AND IMMEDIATELY
NECESSARY, LIKE THE WAR IN
AFGHANISTAN.
NUCLEAR DETERRENCE.
TAKING CARE OF WOUNDED WARRIORS
AND SO FORTH.
WHAT THAT MEANS IS ALL THE REST
OF THE BILL HAS BULGED INTO
OTHER THINGS.
THESE THINGS AREN'T UNNECESSARY.
THEY'RE JUST PLACES WHERE WE CAN
GET OUR HANDS ON THE MONEY VERY
QUICKLY.
AND THE PRINCIPAL ONE THAT
CONCERNS US HAS BEEN TRAINING.
THE SECOND ONE IS FURL OWING
CIVILIANS.
OUR CIVILIANS ARE VERY IMPORTANT
TO US.
THESE ARE GREAT PEOPLE, GREAT
PATRIOTS, MORE THAN HALF OF THEM
ARE VETERANS.
WE'VE HAD TO FURL OWE THEM.
THESE ARE NOT THINGS THAT YOU DO
IF YOU HAD THE TIME TO MAKE A
BUDGET CHANGE IN A SENSIBLE WAY.
IT'S THE SPEED OF SEQUESTER THAT
MAKES IT SO DIFFICULT.
YOU MENTIONED OTHER AGENCIES OF
GOVERNMENT.
I'M NOT THE ONLY MANAGER AROUND
TOWN WHO IS TRYING TO DO THESE
THINGS.
YOU KNOW, WE DEPEND UPON SCIENCE
AND ENGINEERING IN DEFENSE TO
KEEP THE TECHNOLOGICAL EDGE.
WE DEPEND UPON AN EDUCATED WORK
FORCE BECAUSE WE HAVE AN
ALL-VOLUNTEER MILITARY.
WE DEPEND UPON SOUND
INFRASTRUCTURE.
WECH DEPEND ON ALL THESE OTHER
THINGS, ALL THE OTHER PARTS OF
GOVERNMENT.
THE FACT THAT EVERYBODY IS BEING
FORCED TO DO THESE THINGS THAT
ARE MANAGERIALLY NONSENSICAL IS
A SHAME FOR US.
AND THE OTHER THING IS IS THE
TAX PAYOR, THEY ONLY SHOULD GIVE
US THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THAT WE
NEED TO PROTECT THEM.
I UNDERSTAND THAT.
AND ALSO VERY IMPORTANTLY WE
SHOULD ONLY, WE SHOULD MAKE SURE
THAT WE MAKE GOOD USE OF EVERY
DOLLAR THEY GIVE US.
SOMETIMES WE DON'T.
THAT'S SOMETHING VERY SERIOUS TO
ME.
THAT'S WHY AN IMPORTANT PART OF
OUR REVIEW IS TO MAKE BETTER USE
OF THE TAX PAYOR DOLLAR.
WE'RE PREPARED TO CHANGE.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE TO CHANGE, RAY,
BECAUSE THE WAR IN IRAQ IS OVER
AND THE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN IS
WINDING DOWN.
WE HAVE TO CHANGE AND FACE THE
PROBLEMS THAT ARE GOING TO
DEFINE OUR FUTURE.
WE'RE READY TO CHANGE AND KNOW
THAT WE NEED TO CHANGE
STRATEGICALLY BUT UNFORTUNATELY
SEQUESTER IS IS NOT THE WAY TO
DO IT
>> Suarez: I WANT TO CONTINUE
THIS CONVERSATION ONLINE.
BUT DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
ASHTON CARTER, THANKS FOR
JOINING US ON THE PROGRAM.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Warner: WE'LL BE BACK SHORTLY
WITH A REPORT ON SYRIAN REFUGEES
FLEEING THAT COUNTRY'S BLOODY
CIVIL WAR.
BUT FIRST, THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK
ON PBS.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT, AND THAT SUPPORT
HELPS KEEP PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON
THE AIR.
MORE THAN 100,000 PEOPLE HAVE
DIED IN THE TWO-YEAR CIVIL WAR,
ACCORDING TO THE UNITED NATIONS,
AND THE CONFLICT HAS CAUSED
MISERY BEYOND THE COUNTRY'S
BORDERS.
MORE THAN A MILLION PEOPLE HAVE
FLED THE FIGHTING, MANY OF THEM
TO JORDAN AND THE WORLD'S SECOND
LARGEST REFUGEE CAMP, KNOWN AS
ZATARI.
LINDSEY HILSUM OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS SPENT 24 HOURS
THERE REPORTING FIRSTHAND ON THE
HUMAN COST OF THE WAR.
>> Reporter: IT'S RAMADAN, AND
DUSK IS FALLING OVER THE BIGGEST
REFUGEE CAMP IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
A YEAR AGO, THIS WAS A DUSTY
PATCH OF DESERT; TODAY, IT'S
HOME TO 120,000 PEOPLE.
I'M WITH KILIAN KLEINSCHMIDT,
THE MAN WHO IS TRYING TO TURN
CHAOS INTO ORDER.
>> WELL, YOU'RE SEEING HERE THIS
CABLE, WHICH IS PULLED BY
SOMEBODY WHO HAS BEEN SELLING IT
TO THE PEOPLE IN THIS AREA
BECAUSE THEY TECHNICALLY DON'T
HAVE ELECTRICITY.
>> Reporter: THE CAMP HAS GROWN
MORE QUICKLY THAN THE U.N.'S
CAPACITY TO CONNECT ALL THE
TENTS AND TRAILERS.
THEY HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THE
BILL'S GOING TO BE, SO, NOW,
HE'S PUT IN A NEW TRANSFORMER
AND GOT THE BOOTLEG ENGINEERS TO
PROTECT IT.
THE GUYS WHO WERE DOING ALL
THESE THINGS ILLEGALLY, YOU'RE
GETTING THEM ON YOUR SIDE?
>> WE'RE GETTING THEM ON OUR
SIDE BECAUSE WE'RE NOT SAYING
"STOP IT"; WE'RE SAYING, "LET'S
WORK TOGETHER AND IMPROVE IT."
>> Reporter: BRIGHT LIGHTS,
ALMOST BIG CITY.
THEY CALL THIS THE CHAMPS
ELYSEES.
THE GOODS ON SALE MIGHT BE A BIT
DIFFERENT, BUT THE POINT IS THAT
THIS IS A STREET IN WHAT
INCREASINGLY LOOKS LIKE A TOWN.
IN THE LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS,
ZAATARI HAS TAKEN ON AN AIR OF
PERMANENCE.
THE SYRIANS HERE MIGHT NOT WANT
TO ADMIT IT, BUT THEY KNOW
THEY'RE NOT GOING BACK TOMORROW
OR NEXT WEEK.
NOT NEXT YEAR, EITHER.
>> IN THE WINTER, THIS WILL ALL
GET MUDDY AND FULL WITH...
>> Reporter: WALKING AROUND, WE
CAME ACROSS A GROUP OF 16-YEAR-
OLD GIRLS.
THEY TOLD ME THEY HATED LIFE IN
ZAATARI BUT HAD NO HOPE OF GOING
HOME TO DERAA IN SYRIA.
>> ( translated ): WHAT CAN WE
DO?
ASSAD IS STILL GOING STRONG.
>> Reporter: THE BOYS, LIKE BOYS
EVERYWHERE, WERE PLAYING SHOOT
'EM UP COMPUTER GAMES.
BUT FOR THEM, VIOLENCE ISN'T
ABSTRACT.
IN FACT, THEY SEE THIS AS
PRACTICE.
>> ( translated ): THESE KIDS
WERE BOMBED AND SAW BATTLES AND
DESTRUCTION, SO IDEAS BEGAN TO
DEVELOP IN THEIR MINDS.
THEY STARTED DREAMING OF
BECOMING PART OF THE RESISTANCE,
OF FIGHTING AND DEFENDING THEIR
COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: KILLIAN IS TALKING
TO THE ELDERS.
NOW IT'S DARK; THEY'VE BROKEN
E RTHAMADAN FAST.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO DO MORE.
WE CAN DO MORE, BUT WE NEED TO
WORK TOGETHER MORE.
>> Reporter: THEY COMPLAIN TO
HIM ABOUT WATER POLLUTION,
ALTHOUGH, ON OCCASION, REFUGEES
HAVE SMUGGLED OUT IN MUD-COVERED
STOLEN TENTS INSIDE THE TANKERS.
IT'S NOT ALWAYS EASY TO BUILD
TRUST.
EARLY MORNING, AND THE BREAD VAN
ARRIVES.
BREAD'S DISTRIBUTED FOR FREE,
BUT NOW BAKERIES ARE SPRINGING
UP IN THE CAMP.
IT'S USUALLY THE CHILDREN'S JOB
TO COLLECT THE FAMILY SUPPLY.
THERE ARE 60,000 KIDS IN THE
CAMP; ONLY A QUARTER OF THEM GO
TO SCHOOL.
THEY ROAM AROUND CHUCKING
STONES.
>> ( translated ): WHEN YOU WANT
TO BE HAPPY, WHEN YOU WANT TO BE
HAPPY, WHAT DO YOU DO?
>> Reporter: A PROJECT TO HELP
CHILDREN RECONNECT WITH THEIR
EMOTIONS.
WAR AND EXILE HAVE ROBBED THEM
OF ALL SENSE OF RISK, FOR
THEMSELVES OR ANYONE ELSE.
>> THESE CHILDREN HAVE LIVED FOR
A PARTICULARLY LONG TIME IN
LEVELS OF STRESS THAT ARE
INCREDIBLY PROFOUND.
SO, WHEN THAT HAPPENS, THERE'S A
PART OF YOUR BRAIN THAT GOES,
"YOU'VE EXPERIENCED TOO MUCH."
AND IT'S LIKE A SIM CARD IN A
PHONE; IT TURNS ITSELF OFF.
YOU GO INTO SURVIVOR MODE.
>> Reporter: AS IF TO PROVE THE
PNT, OIONE LOBBED A STONE AT THE
AID WORKERS' VEHICLE AS THEY
LEFT.
WATER IS A SCARCE RESOURCE IN
THE CAMP, BUT THE KIDS AREN'T
WORRIED.
DUSK IS FALLING AGAIN.
FOR THE CHILDREN, THE YEARS
STRETCH AHEAD IN THE CAMP THAT
BECAME A TOWN IN THE DESERT IN
JORDAN.
SOON, SYRIA WILL BE JUST A
DREAM.
>> Warner: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT URGED ALL
U.S. CITIZENS IN YEMEN TO GET
OUT OF THE COUNTRY "IMMEDIATELY"
IN THE FACE OF A POTENTIAL AL
QAEDA ATTACK.
AND THE COURT MARTIAL OF ARMY
MAJOR NIDAL HASSAN GOT UNDER WAY
AT FORT HOOD, TEXAS, IN THE 2009
SHOOTING RAMPAGE THAT KILLED 13
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, AS THE
AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE ACT KICKS
INTO GEAR, THE GOVERNMENT BEGINS
TO WOO YOUNG ADULTS.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WANTS MILLIONS OF
YOUNG, HEALTHY PEOPLE WILL SIGN
UP FOR INSURANCE UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT IN ORDER TO
OFFSET COSTS OF CARING FOR THE
SICK AND ELDERLY.
WE ASKED OUR YOUNGER VIEWERS HOW
THE NEW LAW AFFECTS THEM.
READ THEIR RESPONSES ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
AND CRACKING DOWN ON THE RISING
METH TRADE.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM OUR
PARTNERS AT FRONTERAS AND SAN
DIEGO'S KPBS.
WATCH THE STORY ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
MARGARET?
>> Warner: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
FIGHT TO ENSURE THAT PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES GET THE
OPPORTUNITIES THE LAW REQUIRES.
I'M MARGARET WARNER.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.